# What is Hugiki ?

Hugiki is a WYSIWYW (what you see, is what you __want__) editing frontend for creating Hugo-based websites.
Using Hugiki helps to reduce page-editing turnaround time as all the editing and preview happens in the same browser. 
When building Hugo-based webpages it provide an integrated "look and feel" experience compared to the ordinary manual approach, so Hugo beginners also better can relate to website building process.

## What is Hugo ?

Hugo is a fast building system for fast static websites, so Hugo transforms markdown-text content, other content and templates into a complete static website.

See more about Hugo
* [Hugo website](https://gohugo.io/)
* [Hugo on Github](https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo) 

## What is the problem in building websites with Hugo only ?
Hugo, as a static markdown-text based website builder, might not be complete userfriendly solution for many users, as the website construction process for them

1. requires knowledge of markdown language and has a steeper learning curve than just "clicking" in a graphical user interface
1. assumes the user has a good imagination and experience of how the markdown-text will look like in the final website ie. no direct "look and feel"
1. leads to many interations of editing & saving the markdown-text documents and reloading the generated webpage in a separate webbrowser

All these issues are otften resolved in other (dynamic) website building solutions such as CMS (content management systems) addressed by a WYSIWYG-approach (what you see, is what you __get__). Unfortunately these CMS' are known to have deficiencies in other areas such as the final website's stability, security and performance.

## How Hugiki helps Hugo ?
Hugiki brings the element of faster reaction to changes of a Hugo website by allowing the user to edit the markdown-text, show the resulting Hugo-generated webpage within the same browser-view of a Hugiki-webpage and react to changes in it.

## What does "Hugiki" mean ?
The word Hugiki derives from
* Hugo - the static website builder
* Wiki - the Hawaiian word for quick (see [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wiki))

# The current state of Hugiki

Hugiki is currently in a explorative development / prototype phase, so many thing might change drastically between version uploads

## Features and their state
Here is a list of features and their state (idea, doing, testing, done)

1. Editing content markdown-files and fast review of result (state: testing)
1. Hugiki application menu (state: testing)
1. Hugo project files exploration (state: testing)
1. Formating of Hugigki output via CSS "cascaded style sheets" (state: testing)
1. Searching of content files (state: testing)
1. Creation and deletion of content files and directories (state: doing)
1. Online configuration settings (state: idea)
1. Basic git integration for managing (state: idea)
1. Editing other files than the Hugo content-markdown files (state: idea)
1. Autostart of Hugo-webserver as a sub-process (state: idea)

# Using Hugiki

## Install directly

```text
go install github.com/sascha-dibbern/Hugiki@latest
```

## Clone and build yourself

```text
git clone git@github.com:sascha-dibbern/Hugiki.git
cd Hugiki
go build
```

# Using Hugiki

## Create a minimal configuration file

Create a configuration file `myproject.yml` in Yaml format for a Hugo project under `/home/user/projects/demosite`:

```text
backendbaseurl: http://localhost:1313/
hugoproject: /home/user/projects/demosite
```

### Configurations
- backendbaseurl: the link url to separate started Hugo webserver
- hugoproject: the filesystem path to Hugo project to be edited. In Window slash-based path (`C:/projects/demosite1`)  are allowed
- serverbinding: ip-address and port to bind the service. (Default: 127.0.0.1:3000)
- gitcommand: name and path og the Git program to use. (Default: git)
- hugikistatic: filesystem path to Hugiki static content such as CSS file and images

## Running Hugiki

For a working Hugiki-setup a Hugo development server has to be started for automtic website-rendering. Hugiki will proxy the markdown and rendered content from Hugo-server and the Hugo-project files in the local filesystem.

### Start Hugo
First start Hugo's development server to view the enable site.
```text
cd /home/user/projects/demosite
hugo server
```

or for enabling viewing and editing draft documents

```text
cd /home/user/projects/demosite
hugo server -D
```
(See also more at [Hugo quick start](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/quick-start/))

Hugo's development server will provide content on your computer under [http://localhost:1313/](http://localhost:1313/) that Hugiki will proxy through to the Hugiki session.

### Start Hugiki

Next start Hugiki
```text
Hugiki --config myproject.yml
```

### Access Hugiki

Hugiki will provide a webserver under [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/)
From here one can browse and edit the content of the Hugo project and preview the autogenerated pages too.
